Title: 
Dataset for a systematic literature review on drivers of forest area development

Abstract:
The table contains data extracted from a systematic literature review. The aim of the systematic analysis is to identify patterns in drivers of forest area development. The systematic analysis was conducted using the RepOrting standards for Systematic Evidence Syntheses in environmental research (ROSES) method. This approach involves the search for literature in two databases (Web of Science and Scopus) using a clearly defined search string and the screening for literature based on a predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria within the author team. A comprehensive protocol and method description can be found in the evidence and gap map published by Tandetzki et. al. (2022)[1]. The method introduced in Tandetzki et al. (2022) is utilized and updated, including the search for articles which was renewed and now includes publications up to August 2022. After screening the articles, a well-defined study selection was made following a pre-defined and standardized process. In this process, a distinction is made between basic studies, which take into account only a few basic drivers of forest area development, and advanced studies, which assess the significant influence of multiple drivers on forest area development. Finally, the selection includes 85 studies, out of which 14 are considered as basic studies. In the dataset presented here, all included studies, their extracted data (e.g., datasets, data source, estimation methods, and studies periods), the study design, as well as the drivers of forest area development in form of independent variables (the latter are coded with numbers indicating the type of influence on the significance level). [1] Tandetzki, J.; Schier, F.; Köthke, M.; Weimar, H. (2022): An evidence and gap map of the environmental Kuznets curve and the forest transition hypothesis for estimating forest area development. Environ. Res. Lett. 17 (12), p. 123005. DOI: 10.1088/1748-9326/aca781.

