Title: 
Decoupling of impact factors reveals the response of German winter wheat yields to climatic changes

Abstract:
Yield development of agricultural crops over time is not merely the result of genetic and
 agronomic factors, but also the outcome of a complex interaction between climatic and
 site-specific soil conditions. However, the influence of past climatic changes on yield
 trends remains unclear, particularly under consideration of different soil conditions. In
 this study, we determine the effects of single agrometeorological factors on the evolution
 of German winter wheat yields between 1958 and 2015 from 298 published nitrogen
 (N)-fertilization experiments. For this purpose, we separate climatic from genetic
 and agronomic yield effects using linear mixed effect models and estimate the climatic
 influence based on a coefficient of determination for these models. We found earlier
 occurrence of wheat growth stages, and shortened development phases except for the
 phase of stem elongation. Agrometeorological factors are defined as climate covariates
 related to the growth of winter wheat. Our results indicate a general and strong effect of
 agroclimatic changes on yield development, in particular due to increasing mean temperatures
 and heat stress events during the grain-filling period. Except for heat stress days
 with more than 31°C, yields at sites with higher yield potential were less prone to adverse
 weather effects than at sites with lower yield potential. Our data furthermore reveal that
 a potential yield levelling, as found for many West-European countries, predominantly
 occurred at sites with relatively low yield potential and about one decade earlier (mid-
 1980s) compared to averaged yield data for the whole of Germany. Interestingly, effects
 related to high precipitation events were less relevant than temperature-related effects
 and became relevant particularly during the vegetative growth phase. Overall, this study
 emphasizes the sensitivity of yield productivity to past climatic conditions, under consideration
 of regional differences, and underlines the necessity of finding adaptation strategies
 for food production under ongoing and expected climate change.

