Title: 
Supporting data for the manuscript ‘Birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh.) encroachment alters contribution of plant functional groups to ecosystem carbon cycling in a rewetted bog’

Abstract:
Rewetted bogs with high water levels (WL) and mire-specific vegetation are crucial carbon (C) sinks, but their function might be threatened by tree encroachment, a phenomenon widespread in the northern hemisphere that often coincides with low WL. This might impact C cycling both at the ecosystem and microform scale in multiple ways, but so far, data is lacking. We established two sites in the same former peat extraction area, one showing permanently high WL and mire-specific vegetation (Open site, OS), while the other one has more fluctuating WL and a dense birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh.) population (Tree site, TS). We measured the carbon dioxide (CO2) exchange at ecosystem (eddy covariance) and plot scale (chamber measurements) for one year to clarify the differences between the sites and the impact of birch encroachment on the contribution of the different bog-specific microforms to the ecosystem’s CO2 balance. Overall, the OS had a CO2 balance of -262.4 ± 7.8 g CO2-C m-2 yr-1 indicating CO2 uptake, while the TS was close to neutral (-28 ± 5.1 g CO2-C m-2 yr-1). The smaller uptake at the TS was caused by higher (151%) ecosystem respiration, while gross primary production was only 15% difference. However, the microform contributions to C uptake strongly differed: At the OS, both hummocks and hollows showed net uptake, while at the TS, most C (52%) was assimilated by the birches and the understory was a net CO2 source. This indicates a loss of peat C from the TS, while the successfully rewetted site was accumulating new peat. Accounting for plot-scale CH4 fluxes, both sites were a weak source of greenhouse gases, but a distinctly stronger C sink occurred at the OS. Our data shows the possibility to increase C removal from the atmosphere by full rewetting and the establishment of mire-specific vegetation.

